Are we in an AI bubble?
>> Uh,
>> this is Mustafa Suleman, co-founder of
DeepMind, one of the first companies to
teach machines how to think. Today, he
leads Microsoft AI, one of the
magnificent seven, shaping the future of
our world.
>> It's the smartest, most capable
technology we've ever invented. It's
improving faster than anything we've
ever seen. And it's very important that
we keep reminding ourselves of that.
Like in 25 years time, a large portion
of the population are going to struggle
to compete in the workplace with AI.
>> With that power comes a question none of
us can ignore because the same
intelligence that builds our future
could also rewrite what it means to be
human.
>> These things don't suffer. They don't
feel pain. They're just simulating
highquality conversation. So we've got
to be very careful about that.
>> AI isn't just learning. It's starting to
live with us. Your personal AI is just
going to have ambient awareness of what
you're trying to do and talk to you in
real time. It is going to remember
everything in the future and be perfect
if you choose for it to do that.
>> So, if it remembers everything, what's
going to happen to our brains?
>> Um, they don't sleep, they don't forget,
they don't feel, but they're learning
faster than we ever imagined. So, the
real question is, what happens to us
next?
This video is sponsored by HubSpot.
>> Mustafa, welcome. Thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> The first question, everyone's talking
about it on YouTube right now. Are we in
an AI bubble?
>> Uh, yes. So, no, we're not.
>> I don't think so. I think um when you
kind of think about it, we are creating
something that is truly magical. Um,
intelligence is
the thing that has made us successful as
a species. Um, and we're now distilling
that into a smaller and smaller unit um
that can be spread all over the world
and that is going to be cheap and widely
abundant. So that's just a remarkable
thought like
>> yeah but we kind of had the same thought
you know during crash like we're
inventing internet blah blah blah but
there are some companies that you know
their valuations are much higher than
their revenues and like everyone's
talking about Nvidia investing and then
that revenue going back to Nvidia. What
do you think about that?
>> No I I I think the value that we're
going to produce in the next 5 to 10
years is going to be unprecedented. So
you don't think we're going to
experience something like, you know,
2008 co?
>> I mean, who knows? But I I think if you
think just focus on the fundamental
value that's being created, this is the
best prediction engine anyone's ever
seen. It's the smartest, most capable
technology we've ever invented. It's
improving faster than anything we've
ever seen. It has got more easy to shape
and control, not less. 3 years ago, we
thought that it was going to get more
chaotic and more disorganized, so we
weren't going to be able to sculpt it.
And now we're producing beautiful,
powerful, amazing experiences that are
surprising us every month. So, yeah. I
know. I'm genuinely very bullish.
>> Okay. So, you're not worried. You're
good. And we shouldn't be worried. Okay.
That that makes me feel better. Okay.
Let's talk about AI becoming more
conscious. Uh you talked about it in one
of the podcasts that we perceive AI more
and more as human.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh how fast is it happening? what's
going to happen in the next few years.
>> It is getting more humanlike. Um it's
getting more accurate. It's getting more
fluid, more smooth, and that is
unprecedented. At the same time, it's
definitely not conscious. Um it isn't
aware of itself. It can't speak about
itself. It, you know, it's very
different to what it's like for a human
to have a subjective experience and to
feel pain and suffering. And it's very
important that we keep reminding
ourselves of that because consciousness
is the basis of our rights based
framework. And it is the thing that
gives us responsibilities as citizens in
societies that allows us to vote which
allows us to be subject to the law which
creates order. Like you know we can't
begin to attribute this quality to a new
species. That would be terrible for our
species.
>> But we still heard stories of Google.
the story that you told in your book of
Google engineer who was convinced by AI
that it was experiencing sadness and it
was afraid of being shut down.
>> True. True. Yeah. And that was an
anthropomorphic projection. People, you
know, just because it has some human
qualities doesn't mean it has all of
human qualities, including subjective
experience. And I think we can prove
that it doesn't have subjective
experience. That it isn't going to
emerge this kind of self-awareness
that's just a sci-fi fantasy. And I
understand why people sometimes go there
because we've been schooled on sci-fi
for as long as forever and it's a
natural assumption to make. But these
things don't suffer. They don't feel
pain. They're just simulating
highquality
conversation. And that is magical and it
feels amazing. But that doesn't mean
that it is something. It feels something
internally to be one of these models.
So, we've got to be very careful about
that.
>> Some people talk about our kids having
real relationships with AIS in 10 years,
like getting married to AIS.
>> Do you think it's something that could
potentially happen and if yes, how can
we prevent that?
>> I think the history of the human
condition proves to us that if it's
possible, someone will probably do it.
You know, people do crazy things, but
the majority of people don't. The
majority of people are pretty sound of
mind and pretty sensible and just want
to live healthy, happy lives. And so if
some people choose to marry their AI in
20 years time, I'm not going to kind of
sit here and necessarily judge that or
say don't do it or do do it. If you ask
me my opinion, I don't think that these
should be treated as entities that are
of equal moral significance to humans. I
think that they should be in service of
humans. They should work for us. That's
why we invent technology. You know, I
love the technology behind this
microphone because it amplifies our
voices and distributes them to millions
of people on the internet. That is a
technology that is in service of
humanity that's doing good.
>> Yeah,
>> that's what we want. And I don't
necessarily think that um you know these
an idea of super intelligence that is
autonomous that can self-improve that
can set its own goals that can act
independently of humans that to me
doesn't feel like a positive vision of
the future. Uh it would be very hard to
contain something like that or align it
to our values. And so that should be the
anti- goal. That's not what we're trying
to build.
>> Yeah.
>> In my opinion, we're trying to build a
humanist super intelligence. one that is
aligned to our interests on our team in
our corner backing us up. That's the
great project that we're engaged in at
Microsoft with Copilot.
>> But then again, a lot of people are
talking about AGI. Is that similar to
super intelligence or how would you
>> Yeah, you can think of AGI as a step
before maybe super intelligence, but
roughly speaking, they're fairly used
fairly interchangeably
>> because Demis your ex-coounder mentioned
we could achieve it by 2030. Can you
talk about what it means for society?
>> Yeah, I mean I I think achieving human
level performance at most tasks, I
wouldn't say all knowledge tasks. Um
that feels quite likely in the next 5
years. I think it's a fairly grounded uh
prediction. You know, if you think about
it, these models already do many tasks
better than a human. I mean, you know,
summarization, translation,
transcription,
uh, research, document writing, maybe
even arguably poetry or some parts of
literature or whatever. So, you can see
that they're taking steps towards being
as good as a human at being a project
manager or being a marketing person or
an HR person or having a tough
conversation with somebody about a
diagnosis for a medical condition they
have. So, it is going to fundamentally
change work in the most profound way.
It's going to change the type of work
that we do. You know, 10 years ago, it
wasn't possible for you to do the job
that you're now doing.
>> But with streaming content, you don't
need a big team around you. You don't
need to be part of a big institution.
So, we've democratized access to the
power of broadcast with the arrival of
the internet and streaming and
podcasting. That's amazing. Now, with
these models, we're democratizing access
to intelligence. So you don't have to be
a really privileged, wealthy, educated
person that has access to capital to be
able to found a company to hire a great
team. You're going to have a team of
intelligences around you that are the
best lawyer, the best doctor, the best
teacher, the best project manager. And
that is going to create unbelievable
amounts of competition because the
distance between an idea and the
realization of that idea is going to
collapse. That's an amazing thought.
>> Yeah.
>> People are just going to be thinking new
companies into existence, new products,
new pieces of poetry.
>> People, you said people like my my
concern,
>> you and me, like you're going to have an
agent around you that is going to be
able to execute on that idea. You know
what my concern is with super
intelligence that AI is going to come up
with ideas because like why would it
need like why do we need to come up with
ideas if AI has all the information if
we're talking about marketing business
for example it can identify gaps in the
market come up with the website launch
the ads do the business do you think
that might happen
>> it will definitely happen definitely
happen to have a team of agents around
you that can do more and more of the
tasks and arguably do them autonomously
but that comes back to what we were
saying before about containment.
Containment is the project of making
sure that these AIs have limited scope
and check in with you and are
accountable to you and are working on
your behalf. And so the creative
challenge for technologists is to say
what are the limitations? What are the
guardrails? What can it not do? When
does it have to seek your approval for
an autonomous action? And you know we
we've done this many times in past
moments of technology, right? We
invented the combustion engine almost a
century ago and that over time became
cars and trucks and so on and so forth.
But the amount of regulation that we put
around those vehicles to make them work
for us in service of humanity, it's
unbelievable, right? Seat belts and
vehicle emissions and street lights and
freeways and speed limits and driver
education. There's so many different
components that go into that and I think
this is going to be no different. We're
going to have to figure out what are all
the regulations and guardrails that go
into managing, you know, autonomous
agents so that they always work for us.
>> Let me quickly pause here. If all of it
sounds exciting but also a bit
overwhelming, you're going to love this.
HubSpot for startups just dropped a free
database called 100 plus creative AI use
cases beyond code outreach. It's a
collection of real unconventional ways
companies across 30 industries from real
estate and healthcare to e-commerce and
manufacturing are using AI to solve
problems in completely new ways. The
truth is the companies that will
dominate in the next decade won't be
using AI for the obvious stuff. They'll
be the ones finding creative
applications that give them a real edge.
And your next breakthrough might
actually be hiding in this list. You'll
get implementation guidance, difficulty
levels, and the exact tools you need to
turn ideas into action. Use it to
streamline operations, discover new
revenue streams, or uncover advantages
your competitors haven't even seen yet.
You can access it for free and start
building your competitive edge today.
Link as always in the description. Big
thanks to HubSpot for Startups for
sponsoring this video. Let's imagine
super intelligence. What does my day
look like then? If AI is capable of so
many things, what is this thing that is
very specific to humans and is going to
stay with humans?
>> Yeah, I think that great technology
helps you get bad technology out the
way. And that's the test. Like it is
kind of annoying to use a graphical user
interface today on your desktop. If you
think about it, if you just take a step
back, you go to your computer and you've
got all these windows with different
colors and different brands and
different menus and information
hierarchies and different settings and
you have to learn each app for its own
sake. And we don't think of it as
advertising, but when you open your
computer, you kindly have a bill you
kind of have a billboard of all these
different competing apps that are like,
"Use me, try me, do it's kind of
distracting. It's kind of ugly. I just
want to be able to turn to my AI and be
like, I need this task done, solve it
for me, buy it for me, book it for me,
create it, check in with me at the right
time, get my permission, you know, get
my feedback, brainstorm with me,
whatever it is. But you're going to
start to see the operating system, the
browser, the search engine, the apps,
all of these are going to slip away
>> as your personal humanist super
intelligence takes over a lot of the
day-to-day work of browsing, searching,
planning, booking, syncing, etc.
>> So, it's no longer going to be a
computer, you think?
>> Yeah, I mean less and less. Um, I think
we'll have different kinds of devices
like tablets, wearables. It'll be much
more ambient in 5 to 10 years.
>> Imagine it's 2040 and we're in this
kitchen.
>> What things are obsolete? They don't
exist anymore. And what do I have to
make my life easier for AI?
>> So, I think there will probably be some
kind of household robotic arm. Probably.
I don't know if it will be a humanoid
walking around, but certainly you would
have a a mounted system on your on your
uh on your counter
>> here. I think it yeah it will learn to
use all the different appliances. So
probably you would have many of the
similar appliances that you've got
today. But the AI is just going to learn
to use them in the way that you would
use them. I think some people imagine
that the entire thing is going to look
totally different to suit the AI.
>> But actually it's not like the robot is
just going to learn to do the things
that you do in the way that you do it.
So you're still going to want to use a
kettle. I mean that kettle is, you know,
hundreds of years old. We've been, you
know, making cups and handles like that
in the same way. So I think that stuff
will remain the same. So the hand or or
a humanoid, what are you leaning
towards?
>> I think the the the hum I mean 15 years
is a pretty long way out. So it probably
will be humanoid, but I think the
challenge with humanoid is like the
physical the risk of it being physically
in your space. I think it's got to be
very very accurate and very reliable and
handling hot things around children and
the elderly and you can imagine all
kinds of complications. So I think it
would be technically feasible. It will
just be a bit of an adjustment to people
get comfortable with it.
>> What about devices? Do you think I'm
going to have like I know an AI
projector and like tap on the air as it
and and get instructions how to cook
things or is it going to be glasses?
>> I think that you're going to just have
it in your ear. So I think that you know
>> your AI is like your personal AI is just
going to have ambient awareness of what
you're trying to do and talk to you in
real time. So,
>> so it will have a camera
>> in my ear.
>> Yeah.
>> And it will Oh,
>> yeah.
>> Interesting. I don't think anyone's
working on that.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's very hard to
miniaturaturize that today. So, it's
still a bit of a way off, but by 2040,
definitely. And you'll have other
wearables on you. I mean, look at how
cool this mic is at the moment. It's
tiny, super light.
>> Um, so in time, that'll have a camera on
it as well and have ambient awareness.
>> Okay. So, robotic arm wearables.
Anything else? And then I think those
that ambient awareness is going to mean
that the entire kitchen is just way more
proactive proactively ordering the food
and just checking in with you like, "Oh,
I know that you've got a lot of guests
coming this weekend. Should I order all
the stuff for the barbecue?" All of that
stuff will just happen seamlessly in the
background
>> and the car will go and pick it fix
stuff up.
>> We'll definitely have self-driving cars
by 2040 that basically do most of that.
Yeah. or maybe there'll be little bikes
or different form factors cuz you know
it won't necessarily need to look like a
traditional car.
>> Are there any markets where you think
people should be pay paying attention to
if they want to stay ahead in this AI
race? What are the most exciting
markets?
>> I think by far the most exciting new
market is medicine.
>> Um I think at the moment the quality
difference between the top 10% and the
bottom 10% even in the United States,
let alone rest of the world is is
unbelievable. or the Gulf is like a
probably an order of magnitude. It's
huge.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and again, that's going to completely
collapse because everybody is going to
have access to medical super
intelligence and it will cost 20 bucks a
month. Like it is going to be remarkably
cheap. Um
>> talk to me about what you just released
Harvard backed research right within
co-pilot. If I ask a medical question,
how is it going to work?
>> Exactly. So now I mean we find that like
about 40% of our queries each week are
health related.
>> 40%.
>> Yeah. 40. It's pretty remarkable. Like
millions of people a day are asking
health related queries. So we decided to
really focus on improving the quality of
the health answers. And part of doing
that is that we ground the answers in
citations from Harvard Medical which is
an amazing kind of gift of the world
like the most respected health
institution. Um, and we also do the NHS
in the UK and we'll be doing other
health systems over time. And so people
now get really high quality, very
reliable, you know, pretty accurate.
Like sometimes it makes mistakes, it's
not, you can't rely on it yet. You
always have to go see a doctor, etc. But
if you think about it, most of the time
in a health care situation, people are
trying to make sense of a complicated
technical set of language that they
don't really understand. They're
probably anxious or worried, so they
want to repeat things lots of times.
They want to get it explained in a very
simple way and sometimes they want help
actually making a decision about who to
go see. So we also now have
recommendations for physicians. You
could go see a doctor, you could see a
dermatologist, you could see a physio
>> and we will find someone that fits your
uh preferences like you know maybe you
know you want to see a woman physio who
specializes in
>> sports massage cuz you're a cyclist and
you want them to be local to your area
and so we can make that recommendation.
Co-pilot does that directly inside of
the app in chat.
>> That is awesome.
>> Yeah, it's it's so cool to see that
taking off.
>> I love that. I need to ask about my
cholesterol levels. I'm gonna do this
today. Like you mentioned that access to
knowledge is now democratized. What's
going to happen to traditional
education? Will we see the standard like
bachelors, masters where we basically
spend five or six years just acquiring
knowledge?
>> Yeah, I don't think so. I think that
knowledge acquisition is going to be a
conversation between you and you know
co-pilot. So for example, another
feature that we just launched today in
fact is this learn live feature. So you
actually have a tutor shows up on the
screen and it will lay out a quiz for
you on any topic that you like. So it
doesn't have to be a school curriculum
topic. You might be learning about cacti
or you know Persian rugs. It will give
you an education on it. Lay out the kind
of curriculum piece by piece. Give you a
nice quiz. Present it in a nice
graphical use user interface. And so
knowledge acquisition is about to get
completely decentralized. and available
to everybody and you just have an expert
teacher in your pocket on any subject.
>> Does this mean all education businesses
are dead? I'm thinking about
>> I think my absence
>> I think it's the opposite. I think
education businesses that adopt these
kinds of AI tools and integrate them as
quickly as possible that they're really
going to flourish. It's happening like
that for everything. I mean now in
Copilot you can also generate a podcast
literally in a minute. It's a great
introductory thing. Like the other day I
generate I don't really follow football
or like soccer. Um but I do support
Arsenal because I'm from London and uh
when I go back to London to see my
friends I want to like you know know
what I'm talking about a little bit. So
I asked Copilot to generate me a podcast
on how Arsenal is doing in the season
and what the latest is with the
transfers and who are the best players
and stuff like that. So just like fun,
you know, simple bits of information are
perfect. And now I'm in the gym
listening to a little 5 7 minute podcast
about that.
>> Going back to knowledge and education,
should I be saving for my kids college
or not? They're five and four.
>> Um, so in so 15 years time,
>> um, probably not.
>> There you go.
I don't know. It's really hard to judge.
I'm not sure that we will value a
Stanford education.
Um, that costs I don't know what does it
cost 50 grand a year or something?
>> I think more.
>> Is it more? Something crazy.
>> 50 is a private school here,
>> right? I mean, I just I don't I think
that we're going to have worldass
expertise on tap that cost 20 bucks a
month.
>> But what if like for example, right now
I'm educated and like I study maths,
economics, so I can have these
conversations. If I completely abandon
acquisition of knowledge, how can I have
an argument? It's not like I'm always
talking to my phone, right?
>> Well, you could you could still argue
about stuff. If anything, it'll probably
make us all more argumentative because
we'll be even more knowledgeable. We
want to be exchanging ideas with people,
right?
>> Yeah. I mean, but since you base your
arguments on things that you've acquire
acquired when learning something.
>> Yeah. But you you that that's kind of my
point is that the knowledge acquisition
in the traditional form in the
classroom, you know, with the textbook,
>> that's going to shift entirely. So the
classroom is going to look more like
practicing using your knowledge.
>> So I'd acquire more knowledge if I do it
the other way around with AI.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay.
>> Because then as a kid, you're going to
be able to talk to your AI tutor at any
time during the day. You're going to
learn from the AI podcast. You're going
to learn from the AI video that is going
to be generated. So all the kind of
straightforward teaching is going to
take place, you know, with the student
and the AI. And then when you come into
the classroom for your day, the students
are going to be talking to each other
about the knowledge that they've
acquired from their AI and debating and
learning to, you know, be more
empathetic and be better listeners and
adjust their tone and, you know, that
kind of thing.
>> So, what do you think, uh, parents
should be teaching their kids now?
>> I think it's still important to be good
at like learning knowledge from first
principles yourself and not depending on
the sort of AI tutor leading you
through. Like I think one of the most
important things is from school is the
discipline of being able to teach
yourself. That's a meta skill and that
you know that that comes with friction.
So I think as a parent you still have to
introduce like discipline and friction
into the process because if it comes all
too slowly and it's always on tap, you
know, then the then there's a risk that
the child could just get used to having
everything instantly available and
doesn't learn from the hard work. um you
know the benefits of hard work which I
think are important. So that's like
something to think through now that
everything is going to be so seamless.
>> Another question I wanted to ask you uh
for everyone who thinks that they need
to be technical in the age of AI, you
have philosophical background and you're
ahead of AI at Microsoft.
>> Yeah, I mean I I think that it's easier
than ever to understand what's being
built like everything is available on
YouTube. you know there are so many
courses the curriculums for all of the
major CS classes machine learning
classes are available for undergraduate
uh mast's level even
>> is that how you learn
>> yeah like I've watched I watched Andrew
Ing's course back in the day uh which I
encourage everyone to look at there's
just so many classes I I watched maybe
10 years ago I think when he was at
Corsera and it first came out
>> wow
>> and I've just watched so many of those
so it's very accessible and I think if
you just have a logical mind you're
patient you're disciplined with your own
learning. It is actually very very easy.
>> That's great. So anyone Well, basically
anyone who learns can become head of AI,
build an AI company without learning how
to code. And
>> yeah, because the skills now I mean it's
still good to be able to learn how to
code, but the primary skill is in
synthesis. Like the goal is to bring
together all the different disciplines
of UX and research and product and the
aesthetic and also large scale
distributed systems for training big
models, doing the hardware like you
know. So I think that people who are
multiddisciplinary and can straddle
loads of different technical disciplines
are going to get rewarded most.
>> Yeah. Well, this is so inspiring. You've
released the memory feature, right? So,
uh, AI is going to remember everything
about us. I don't know how it's I
haven't tried the co-pilot yet, but with
other AIs, I see how it forgets. Like, I
just tell it and then I ask the question
and for some reason it forgets and I
have to remind it. Is it going to be a
problem? Have you have you tried it? It
doesn't have infinite perfect memory,
but it does remember specific durable
facts.
>> So, it will remember that you have a
preference for, I don't know, pineapple
on pizza and that you like going running
on a Sunday morning or whatever.
>> Or like meas my measurements. That's the
thing that my eyes keep forgetting. Oh,
really?
>> Can you choose the size from this
website? Oh, I don't have your
measurements. I'm like, no, yes, you do.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> And be like, oh, exactly. I do have
them. I experienced this forgetting
problem almost everywhere with AI. I
mean, we're working on a good knowledge
representation as well, so you can go
and edit the AI's memory of what it
knows about you. And if you ask Copilot
today, what do you know about me? It
will produce a pretty long list. It's
not entirely definitive, so it won't be
absolutely everything that you've ever
told it. It is selective and it chooses
what to remember. And you can tell it to
remember certain things like please
remember,
>> my memory. Yeah.
>> Yeah. But it is going to remember
everything in the future and be perfect
if you choose for it to do that. And of
course, you can delete it and control it
and edit it as you wish. So, if it
remembers everything, what's going to
happen to our brains?
>> Um, I think people said that about
calculators, right? Like, you know,
people aren't going to have to memorize
their times tables anymore. They're just
going to use the calculator.
>> But, you know what? When I was preparing
for GMAT, the test that you have to take
for an MBA, they don't allow you to use
calculators and there are a lot of
numbers. I remember that the two weeks
after the exam, my brain was so fast
because I trained it to calculate and
then I gradually slowed down and I lost
this again. Do you think that that
transferred into other areas of your
knowledge because you were good at
memoring memorizing the numbers?
>> No, I think it was just related to
numbers.
>> It's sort of the risk, isn't it? It's
like, you know, I used to be able to
memorize a lot of telephone numbers as a
kid cuz I could
>> You had to.
>> Yeah. I didn't get a cell phone till I
was like 15. I think I was one of the
first people to get cell phones in my
year at school. And before that,
everyone just remembered telephone
numbers. Uh, and now I can barely
remember my own phone number from, you
know, my own house.
>> Yeah. Um,
>> do you think it affects our brains or
they just develop in a different way?
>> I don't think so because my brain is now
stimulated in a lot of other directions.
Um, you know, it's a muscle that you
don't exercise, but in turn you focus on
other aspects of your brain. And so I
think that we're way better at
synthesizing vast amounts of novel
information compared to like, you know,
people in the 50s or our ancestors 200
years ago. I mean, we're completely
bombarded with stimulus, right?
>> And so, I think that's interesting. It's
had an interesting effect. In some
respects, it's made us a bit more
polarized. In other respects, it's made
us much more empathetic. Like, we don't
fear,
>> you know, people of color or people of
different sexualities or women. And a
lot of that has got to do with just
being aware of others and spending time
with them and watching them on social
media and behave in different ways. and
and that has driven a lot more empathy.
Actually, people often focus on how it's
driven a lot more disagreement and it
has, but it's also driven so much more
understanding um and you know, respect
and forgiveness and those kinds of
things.
>> So, do in general, do you think we're
getting dumber with AI or not?
>> No, I don't think we're getting dumber.
I I think that it's it reduces the
barrier to accessing information and it
actually makes us a lot smarter. You can
ask any question now and many people
are. So questions that were previously
going unasked because the cost of going
to a library and pulling a book off the
shelf and talking to the librarian was
too hard. It took like 4 hours to get an
answer to some question. Like now you
can go to the web and then after the web
you can answer ask a perfect question in
a conversational way to a chatbot. So I
think that's driving more collective
intelligence and more um awareness and
understanding of our world. Can you talk
to me about some killer features that
you think people are underutilizing
right now with AI? Like you implement
something and then you save like an hour
a day. So for me it was asking AI to add
things to my calendar, reply to my
emails, search through my emails. Uh
that has saved me a lot of time.
>> Yeah. I mean I think one of the super
exciting features is this thing we're
calling connectors. So, co-pilot
connectors and you can just say to
co-pilot, hook up my Gmail, hook up my
calendar, you can do it in teams, you
can do it with your Dropbox, you can do
it any basically source of data that you
have about yourself and then ask Copilot
any question about it. So, scheduling,
booking, searching for content, and it
will actually integrate that knowledge
into its answers as well. So, if you
say, "Oh, I'm planning to go here at the
weekend." it'll be like, "Oh, but you've
already made this appointment here." Or,
>> uh, you know, so it that it will
seamlessly have that contextual
awareness about you. It's a really cool
feature.
>> So, even if I ask it ask it to schedule
something, it's going to tell me like,
"Oh, you have a conflict."
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, nice.
>> Or or or it's going to just be like, you
know, you're interested. I I I you know,
I was reading from you like, you know,
where you went on vacation last year
when you did your travel planning that
you really enjoyed, you know, Greece or
something like that. And so, you might
want to try,
>> you know, whatever. What is your
personal favorite use case?
>> I use voice three or four times a day
and I use it at the end of the day as
well for kind of journaling and talking.
I have it set up on my uh iPhone in the
power button. So I literally just press
the power button straight away goes into
voice mode and then I kind of talk to
co-pilot on the way home when I'm
driving home. Um
>> so you talk about your day or
>> Yeah. Talk about my day
>> like journaling. Yeah, it's totally
journey. And then it then it will remind
me what I've said in previous days and
it will help me think through a tricky
problem I have and it kind of maintains
state for me. It's like a second memory.
>> Wow, I love this. It's like second
memory journaling that has all the
information and then yeah helps you with
your decisions.
>> It does.
>> That's fascinating.
>> Do you have a worry and knows too much
about us?
Um,
no. I I think that as long as it's
useful and it's got a purpose, I don't
mind. And I think that's also the story
of technology so far, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Everybody uses the camera and uses
location and
>> knows their search history is helping
personalize search. So,
>> like you said, we have to be careful
about it. Uh, Elon Musk is very vocal
about uh containing AI. Uh I think
Jeffrey Hinton said that we'll have to
be plumbers if we don't learn how to
work with AI. I think he said
>> plumber did he?
>> Yeah cuz like we're still not there with
robotics to do certain tasks especially
like when every house is custom right so
it's not a standardized task but with
intelligence it's like we're getting to
a point where you know people either
learn to do something with hands or
become entrepreneurs and use AI to bring
their ideas to life or then you're out.
No, but I think it's making all of us
way more creative because people have
access to tools in a way they never had
before, right? Not not just access to
information, but access to
experimentation.
You can take an idea, generate the
product for it in an image. You can
generate the technical specification.
You can get the documentation for your
marketing campaign. So, you can simulate
all of these things ahead of time before
you've even built and deployed
something.
>> What if you're not entrepreneurial
enough? I'm just thinking about people
who are like, I just want to do like
standard thing every single day.
>> Yeah.
>> I just feel good about it.
>> Right. Right. But is that an AI problem
or is is that
>> I think it's an problem cuz st like
those standardized tasks something
that's super repeatable is being
replaced.
>> Yeah. But I it depends on your default
assumption about the human condition. I
don't believe that the majority of
people do want to work on a toothpaste
packing line just screwing in the top of
a toothpaste tube. I think that people
want creative work. I think people want
to pursue their passions. They want to,
you know, be led by their own interests
and curiosity. And um we shouldn't
valorize or, you know, sort of idolize
like routine work. Most people I think
many people do jobs that they would love
to get rid of and pursue their passion
and I think AI lowers the barrier to
entry to you pursuing your passion. Um,
now quite often you might be in a
partnership with your husband or your
wife or your best friend and they might
not be as interested in collecting
stamps or, you know, sort of like
keeping snails or, you know, great shoes
as you are, right? And then that's
unfortunate like now, you know, you have
an AI that knows everything that you
could possibly think of um, you know,
about your stamp passion.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think that's cool. What about
adjusting to the speed at which AI is
developing?
>> During the industrial revolution,
workers destroyed machines that replace
them. Could something like that happen
again?
>> That's natural. It's healthy to express
fear and frustration um publicly and be
open and vocal about it. We shouldn't
shame it. People are afraid.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's very understandable. Um, but
the history of science and technology
tells us that net net these tend to be
or at least so far they have been
incredibly positive transitions we've
made. Like automation has lifted
billions of people out of poverty. You
know, our average life expectancy over
the last 250 years has gone from about
30 to about 75, right? That's
unbelievable. Like that people are
living three times longer pretty much.
And that's to as a result of all of
these discoveries and all this science
and so on. So I think so far so good and
I I do think that the trend is headed in
the right direction. It doesn't mean
that there won't be consequences and
side effects and like you have to be
very open minded to that and very like
conscious of it. It is going to happen.
>> Do you think in our case we'll have UBI
to the problem cuz we've never had it
before and you think this is the time? I
think we do have it. I mean, that's what
our taxation system does. It decides who
to, you know, redistribute from and who
to redistribute to
>> and it incentivizes certain types of
behavior.
>> I like everything about it.
>> Um, and so we do we do have a large
scale redistribution mechanism today.
Um, wealthier people do pay more taxes
than people who don't. Uh, pretty much
>> in the US
>> sort of that's pretty roughly true.
That's true. certainly income tax um not
so much on capital gains tax is true
>> and so we've done redistribution before
and we'll have to do redistribution
again um I mean the the the truth is
these are labor replacing technologies
and you can debate the timelines but I
think you can certainly say by 2050 like
in 25 years time I think there's going
to be significant structural
disemployment I think that a large
portion of the population are going to
struggle to compete in the in the
workplace with with AI. And we're going
to have to decide um whether to shorten
the working week
or whether to um you know increase taxes
on some portion of capital
um or indeed like some portion of high
earning incomes
>> and how to redistribute that because
that's what civilization is about. It's
about bringing everybody with us and not
just uh you know a few
>> 100%. And do you think the governments
will be working on that or large
companies who have
>> I think the governments have to lead it.
I mean it needs to be democratically
accountable and uh there's no question
that it needs to be led by governments
but but companies are going to are going
to be the ones footing the bill. You
companies are going to be the ones that
are driving this massive transition. I
mean, Bill Gates said many years ago
now, like six or seven years ago, that
we need a robot tax. The only way to do
it is to tax the robots, right? Um, and
tax essentially what that means is tax
capital. Um, because intelligence, which
was previously the domain of labor, like
people is now getting converted into
capital. It's going to be turned into a
commodity that can be sold and resold
infinitely. And so that's where the
value transition is going to happen. And
so taxation has to follow that value
transition. He called your book his
favorite book on AI. So you wrote your
book a few years ago. Uh is there
something that has changed completely
that you couldn't predict when you were
writing this book?
>> Changed completely.
>> There was an update about 2024 when you
said the wave is here. The wave of AI.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh what is the 2025 update to your book?
>> Yeah, good question. So in the book I
sort of laid out this framework of
capabilities. is there was IQ, the
intelligence quotient, which is kind of
like the factuality and the knowledge
citations and stuff and that was about
hallucinations and I predicted that they
were going to be largely eliminated and
I think pretty much we're on track.
Pretty much they are. Uh there was the
emotional intelligence which is the tone
and style of the personalities of these
things. And then there was the AQ so IQ
EQ AQ AQ is the actions quotient like
the extent to which it can get things
done. book your calendar appointments
and stuff like that. The bit that I
missed um is SQ, the social intelligence
and like today actually we're launching
this new feature co-pilot groups and
it's the first time that you can chat uh
with up to 32 other people and co-pilot
all in one group. So if you're
>> organizing a trip
>> or you're uh helping
>> working with your team now
>> or working with your team or you're you
know trying to like plan a care pathway
for your parent or sibling or something
like that you can have the family or
your friends or your colleagues in a
single group chat all seeing the same
context all asking their own questions
and the cool thing about the social
intelligence of Copilot is that it can
change its tone and style and response
responses to each individual person in
the group, knowing that like your mom
might want a different type of
explanation to your younger brother or
something. Um, and it also remembers the
the types of jokes that people like or
the history that you have talked about.
So, if you say that you're really into
uh, you know, tennis or something, then
it's going to remember to talk to you
about, you know, Wimbledon or whatever
it is, right? And that's social
intelligence. That's what we do as
humans. We can manage the room. We can
adjust our style and tone. I didn't
expect us in 2025 to design AIs that are
really good good at IQ knowledge and and
factualness,
have really pretty good personalities,
can actually take actions on our behalf
and can manage group settings. The group
thing is very exciting.
>> Wow. Where does this lead us uh in 10
years? This particular quality of AI,
>> I think it's going to be the main
frontier. I think it's going to be the
most interesting part because those
group settings will involve other humans
joining them. So it could be a
professional joining like a a lawyer to
give legal advice and then that lawyer
is going to bring their own AI
parallegal to fact check or to summarize
or it could be the doctor and you will
have spoken to your AI doctor for half
an hour before the human doctor comes in
to the same chat and the AI doctor will
have summarized everything, briefed you,
talked you through everything, reassured
you, answered 25 questions and then you
talk to the human at the end for a
shorter time and get the full feedback
from the human and the human doctor
knows that its AI is the one that has
been approved and it relies on and it
kind of reflects them. Um, so you'll
have humans and AIs of different types
all in the same group setting.
>> Zoom call.
>> Yeah. Kind of like a Zoom call or a Zoom
chat, you know, it's like a it's
basically like Well, I mean that's what
it's co-pilot groups, you know, there's
going to be group chat all the time.
>> Wow. Okay. This is so fascinating. Thank
you so much.
>> Pleasure. Thank you for having me. This
has been really fun.
>> Yeah. Thank you.